    Purpose of being able to CLIP (change the volser of) a disk pack
                          while it is ONLINE


    IBM allows you to use the ICKDSF program to change the volume
    serial of a disk pack while it is offline.  But they don't give
    you a program to change the volume serial of a pack when it is
    online.  There may be several reasons for that.

    IBM has to worry about more situations than we have to worry
    about.

    If you change the volser of a pack while it is online, the new
    volser does not take effect right away.  You first have to take
    that volume offline, and then you have to bring it online again.
    Then, the new volser will be in effect.  Or, when you IPL, the new
    volser will be in effect.

    But here is at least one situation in which it is helpful to be
    able to change the volser of a pack while it is still online.

1.  A particular pack went bad, and the operators restored that volser
    from a good backup onto a volser that was "higher" in collating
    sequence of UCB addresses than the original pack, which was still
    online.

    The pack that was online could not be forced offline for a number
    of production-related reasons.  An IPL, to put the new pack
    online, might not take effect properly, because the volser of the
    bad pack was lower.  (Maybe now, it would be OK, with the later
    operating system improvements.  At IPL time you now have a better
    choice, of which pack, having duplicate volsers, that you want to
    keep online.)

    The surest solution would be to rename the bad pack so it would not
    be in effect after the IPL, and the restored pack would be the one
    that you'd get online with no ambiguity.

2.  You could use Fullscreen ZAP from CBT File 300 for this, but that
    is a "zapping" solution which should only be used by a systems
    programmer who knows what he/she is doing.  It is not an "automatic"
    process, that is foolproof, and which can be done by an operator
    without the risk of a serious "mistake".  So....

    What the ONLCLIP program provides, is a job that can be set up for
    an operator to run, and which takes the guesswork out of the
    process.  And it can be set up by the systems programmer, to be run
    by an operator.  (The systems programmer can be home eaing dinner,
    and doesn't have to stay around at IPL time.)  ONLCLIP makes
    possible an easy and accurate way to change the volume serial of a
    disk pack while it is still online.

